PART 1 TRANSCRIPT
----------------------------------------
Speaker 1: One, two, three, go. Thank you, Shaji, for joining us on the show today. You've been in the industry for more than 20 years. Can you take us back to the time when you started your journey? How was the wealth management industry back then? Any reflections from that time?
Speaker 2: Thanks Chiru, it's such a pleasure to be a part of this.
Speaker 1: Thank you.
Speaker 2: Uh, you really make me feel that I've spent 20 years, 22 years in this industry and still learning a lot from the wealth industry.
Speaker 1: 2003 is when you would have started?
Speaker 2: Absolutely. So 2003 is when I began my career in the wealth business. And that is at a point where GDP in India was about half a trillion and we had Sensex at about 3000 points.
Speaker 1: Wow.
Speaker 2: As luck would have it since then market's only been on a bull phase, except for few times, you know, markets really went through a shorter and a longer period of bear phase. But I must tell you that wealth back in the days in 2003 was very, very nascent. And as a result, there are hardly products and there are very basic products that we used to offer to our clients. And it was largely product conversation with clients which we had solved for. But there is nothing beyond like you couldn't sign off as a CIO of of a client's family office. But you could actually offer a lot of product ideas and those are the days where mutual funds.
Speaker 1: Sure.
Speaker 2: And and eventually uh PMS and and then later AIFs have actually evolved. But PMS came in much later, but initially it was all mutual funds. And mutual funds and uh new offering of mutual funds that came into the market with multiple sectors and strategies and various other options on mutual funds. So initial bit of wealth management career has been offering mutual funds to clients. Both uh from debt and equity standpoint, there is nothing beyond debt and equity. That is the start of our wealth management. Yeah.
Speaker 1: But was equity picking up still? Because equity investment itself wouldn't be a major portion of client's portfolio, or would that be the case?
Speaker 2: It was, may not be in the year 2003. 2004 and 5 is when equity as an asset class start to you know, reflect in client's portfolios in a big way.
Speaker 1: Okay.
Speaker 2: The allocation in equity has been the highest. Uh, you know, it began in the year maybe towards the end of 2004. 2003 obviously had taken equity as at the front seat. And then 2004 is when market fell uh with change of uh uh, you know, uh government. And 2005 is when equity came back in a big way and the rally was up to 2000, beginning of 2008. So that's the sort of phase that you've seen and obviously because of the recency bias at that point in time with the equity having given the best returns, client portfolios were filled with only equity.
Speaker 1: Oh,
Speaker 2: Through mutual fund instruments. So the product wise, it was only mutual funds and a bit of PMS where we needed to customize a bit for clients. But strategy wise also, it is largely product that have been placed in client's portfolio and a very small uh focus on building asset allocation. Uh you know, largely to do with how much risk tolerance clients had and therefore built debt. Back in the days, remember, debt were, you know, tax-free after a year.
Speaker 1: Yeah.
Speaker 2: So, you know, a lot of, you know, FMPs were launched. If you crossed over two financial years, you would get the benefit of double indexation. All those things. So debt were absolutely tax efficient. Equity also tax-free. So, as a result, you know, clients have had portfolios built around equity and debt, but debt was a small component of the overall asset allocation that we've done for clients.
Speaker 1: So how aware was the were the clients back then? Would they understand asset allocation or is it something that you guys would have taught them?
Speaker 2: So asset allocation, again, uh, it was more driven by client's risk profile and therefore how much of risk that you would tolerate. But then you also had lot of recency bias uh in in constructing your portfolio. Both from advisor standpoint as well as the client standpoint. If equity had done the best in the last three years, obviously you would want to expose more to equity. So portfolios are largely tuned towards holding weightages in equity than actually debt. And debt was a very small component of the portfolio.
Speaker 1: Everybody.
Speaker 2: Until 2008 happened.
Speaker 1: Of course, yes. And who were the large distributors in 2003, Shaji? Were they banks or?
Speaker 2: So, uh, back in the days, you had wealth management dominated by MNCs.
Speaker 1: Foreign banks, basically.
Speaker 2: Foreign banks. Foreign banks were had a dominant position. That is purely driven by their brand and ability to do some basics of better. And the Indian private sector banks hadn't evolved to actually offer a full stack wealth management service. So foreign banks actually solved for it. They are the they are the real leaders at that point in time to solve for. So majority of us having spent our large part of our career in MNC banks or foreign banks, we've been through this cycle and the the the familiarity that the clients had for or the love that they had for uh MNC banks and foreign banks, it kind of helped, you know, some of us actually build career in, you know, Deutsche and Citibank and Barclay of the world. Uh, that that at that point in time even pure play wealth managers are not really there, you know, there are hardly few. And pure play wealth managers also building their business, they were at a very nation stage. And therefore MNC really, really took the dominance and they were the ones who are called the big boys then. Uh, and that trend over time changed. Today if you look at large part of the MNC banks or or foreign banks have vacated India. So there's very few of them present in India. And the entire pure play wealth managers are the ones who actually taken a dominant position. So the whole in the last 20 years I've seen MNC banks actually ruling this entire segment. Now, shit. Sorry. Should I continue?
Speaker 1: Continue. Continue.
Speaker 2: So, uh, so,
Speaker 1: We'll just start back back then how the MNC banks were.
Speaker 2: So MNC bank, MNC banks were ruling back in the days when when the whole wealth management start to take shape. And then eventually, you know, the the pure play wealth management firms took over from MNCs. Today they have a dominant position, pure play wealth managers have a dominant position. And we've also seen some of these uh pure play wealth managers now listed.
Speaker 1: Yeah.
Speaker 2: And we can also see a large part of their operating income, everything and where their assets are coming, the strategies, everything is now in public domain.
Speaker 1: So back in the day, was it aspirational to work with a foreign bank? Because then you would have a status.
Speaker 2: It was, Chiru, it was. Absolutely. So, you know, I'm a product of HDFC Bank and then immediately I, I wanted to be part of the growth that City saw in City Gold and wealth management business. So I quickly switched on to City and and thereafter you've got multiple opportunities, you know, Deutsche Bank was a very dominant player in wealth management business then, got a leadership position uh in Barclays. So you've been a part of the entire journey in the platform of that was built by foreign banks. But obviously there was there was uh a lot to do from an MNC bank standpoint, from a client portfolio. And the brand was also a big pull at that point in time. Yeah. So all of us, I'm sure you also have, but all of us have actually at that point in time had lot of love and affection for working for MNCs. Today that is completely shifted towards, you know, the pure play wealth managers because over time everyone has the the the senior relationship managers stroke bankers have realized pure play wealth management or wealth management firms are the are the place to be because you they're able to actually offer full stack wealth management solutions to clients.
Speaker 1: So what is this? Is it like a more confident India now that we are more confident about our own wealth players or is it to do with the technology where information is disseminated more easily? What has actually changed in the mindset of people that
Speaker 2: It's the success of the pure play wealth managers in the country, led by some of the firms who are now listed. It is the success of that cohort. And it is also that MNCs have actually vacated in India. And the banks have inherent conflict of interest. FD versus parking money in liquid funds or debt instruments, right? So MNCs have vacated largely private banks in India are doing fairly good job, but they are not acting as a pure advisor to the clients. And therefore the pure play advisory firms with the ability to manufacture products, with the ability to solve for multiple requirements of clients are the ones who are gaining lot of market share. And you've seen that reflecting in some of these large companies having, you know, 18, 20 years of uh vintage are now getting listed or some of them are already listed.
Speaker 1: So as a private banker, Shaji, are you like the thought leader of what happens in the investment world? Because if I look at a bank, there is a corporate bank and there is where you do deal with large corporates. There are retail banks, deposits, etcetera. Your loans are all taken care of. But when you think of a private banker, you must be the knowledge center of what's happening around the globe, connecting the dots and advising people or investments, right? Is that how a private banker can be defined?
Speaker 2: That's the aspiration, Chiru. The aspiration is to be the voice and be an advisor to clients. Therefore, we are able to add lot of and bring one performance and lot of legacies, right? So these are aspirational. Uh at client's portfolio level, we've been able to actually implement a lot of this and be able to actually deliver on returns. And on the other hand, clients also have need of building legacies. They have liquidity events. They have large uh net worth. And therefore, they would want to actually use their liquidity event and net worth to say something to the world about this this pool of net worth they've created, right? So, so therefore a lot of legacy conversations, how do we succession plan, what is estate planning, how do we build holding companies for clients. So there are multiple things beyond only actually looking at portfolios. So if you look at large clients, they have broadly two assets. One is business assets. Uh and second is portfolio, which is what liquid in nature and
Speaker 1: The investments, basically.
Speaker 2: Investments, basically. That's a portfolio. But if you look at business assets, that is also equally important for him because that is where large part of his net worth is sitting. It is listed or unlisted. And then then he has, you know, legacy real estate or real estate that is bought. So the, so these two things, the business assets and real estate are, you know, in business assets sometimes it's illiquid in nature and real estate is also equally important for him because large part of India's net worth sits in real estate today. Everyone's real estate today command majority of people's net worth. And then you have business assets as well. So these two components are very, very critical for us to address. How do we pass on this real estate to the next generation, how do we succession plan for the business ownership as well as management. And then at the bottom you have portfolios where the liquidity has come in and advisor has been able to add value. So, as a firm, if you want to be uh offering a full stack solution to everything as part of their net worth, then you have to take a different approach to building this kind of credibility with clients and reputation with clients. And therefore, you know, majority of the wealth managers today have built capability around not only portfolio management, it's beyond portfolio management to look after um uh portfolios, obviously, obviously clients really look at our value add on the portfolio set. But beyond that is also to look at things which are uh top down right from building framework around managing their money, uh business assets, personal assets and portfolio assets, but also on top transitioning the entire net worth to the next gen.
Speaker 1: So all of this comes under the ambit of private banking?
Speaker 2: Absolutely. Today it's changed and it is, it is where it is.
Speaker 1: And how have things changed with the advent of technology? Because there is so much of information. There is a WhatsApp university where people are educated on what's happening. So have clients become more informed than before? And then how does it impact your service? Because you're an advisor to them.
Speaker 2: So tech is a very important play in wealth. Uh, the usage of tech is between wealth manager and client. So there is usage of tech both sides. The wealth manager needs to be equipped with great internal tech for them to have a fabulous journey in the firm in order to make sure that their journey in the firm is fully tech enabled, right? If I'm able to actually finish a meeting and come out and through my through the iPad if I'm able to communicate internally with all the stakeholders and set certain job roles for each of them to complete basis your conversation with the client and even simple things like today AI provides all this. Simple things like if you are able to actually record the entire conversation that you had with the client and that system is able to deliver the entire transcript to you and be able to actually figure out who's the person who's going to solve for all this, you know, problem statement, objections that the client has raised. All this can be completely automatized to ensure the RM's journey is absolutely uh set for lot of productive conversations and not really spend time on execution. And therefore, I believe that even a wealth manager journey in the firm can be fully automate and as a result, everyone can be productive in the system. And from a client perspective, it is largely to do how client wants to read the, you know, any client want to read the report. If a client want wants to read the report in a certain way, then you hyper customize it for him, personalize it for him, right? So today if you let's just draw a parallel to Netflix. If you've got, if Netflix know that you like certain content that you've been watching, he has the full intelligence of having having you having the entire intelligence of you having seen certain content, it keeps prompting you the content that you may like. And that is the sort of uh technology that you want to raise where you're able to hyper customize and personalize the technology for clients from a reporting perspective. So this client wants to see only the IRR. This client wants to see a little more complicated than IRR, you know, you wants to compare with the benchmark. This client wants to see a particular instrument in the portfolio, how is that portfolio doing. Wants to see.