================================================================================
COMBINED VIDEO TRANSCRIPT
================================================================================

PART 1:
----------------------------------------
Speaker 1: One, two, three, go. Thank you, Shaji, for joining us on the show today. You've been in the industry for more than 20 years. Can you take us back to the time when you started your journey? How was the wealth management industry back then? Any reflections from that time?
Speaker 2: Thanks Chiru, it's such a pleasure to be a part of this.
Speaker 1: Thank you.
Speaker 2: Uh, you really make me feel that I've spent 20 years, 22 years in this industry and still learning a lot from the wealth industry.
Speaker 1: 2003 is when you would have started?
Speaker 2: Absolutely. So 2003 is when I began my career in the wealth business. And that is at a point where GDP in India was about half a trillion and we had Sensex at about 3000 points.
Speaker 1: Wow.
Speaker 2: As luck would have it since then market's only been on a bull phase, except for few times, you know, markets really went through a shorter and a longer period of bear phase. But I must tell you that wealth back in the days in 2003 was very, very nascent. And as a result, there are hardly products and there are very basic products that we used to offer to our clients. And it was largely product conversation with clients which we had solved for. But there is nothing beyond like you couldn't sign off as a CIO of of a client's family office. But you could actually offer a lot of product ideas and those are the days where mutual funds.
Speaker 1: Sure.
Speaker 2: And and eventually uh PMS and and then later AIFs have actually evolved. But PMS came in much later, but initially it was all mutual funds. And mutual funds and uh new offering of mutual funds that came into the market with multiple sectors and strategies and various other options on mutual funds. So initial bit of wealth management career has been offering mutual funds to clients. Both uh from debt and equity standpoint, there is nothing beyond debt and equity. That is the start of our wealth management. Yeah.
Speaker 1: But was equity picking up still? Because equity investment itself wouldn't be a major portion of client's portfolio, or would that be the case?
Speaker 2: It was, may not be in the year 2003. 2004 and 5 is when equity as an asset class start to you know, reflect in client's portfolios in a big way.
Speaker 1: Okay.
Speaker 2: The allocation in equity has been the highest. Uh, you know, it began in the year maybe towards the end of 2004. 2003 obviously had taken equity as at the front seat. And then 2004 is when market fell uh with change of uh uh, you know, uh government. And 2005 is when equity came back in a big way and the rally was up to 2000, beginning of 2008. So that's the sort of phase that you've seen and obviously because of the recency bias at that point in time with the equity having given the best returns, client portfolios were filled with only equity.
Speaker 1: Oh,
Speaker 2: Through mutual fund instruments. So the product wise, it was only mutual funds and a bit of PMS where we needed to customize a bit for clients. But strategy wise also, it is largely product that have been placed in client's portfolio and a very small uh focus on building asset allocation. Uh you know, largely to do with how much risk tolerance clients had and therefore built debt. Back in the days, remember, debt were, you know, tax-free after a year.
Speaker 1: Yeah.
Speaker 2: So, you know, a lot of, you know, FMPs were launched. If you crossed over two financial years, you would get the benefit of double indexation. All those things. So debt were absolutely tax efficient. Equity also tax-free. So, as a result, you know, clients have had portfolios built around equity and debt, but debt was a small component of the overall asset allocation that we've done for clients.
Speaker 1: So how aware was the were the clients back then? Would they understand asset allocation or is it something that you guys would have taught them?
Speaker 2: So asset allocation, again, uh, it was more driven by client's risk profile and therefore how much of risk that you would tolerate. But then you also had lot of recency bias uh in in constructing your portfolio. Both from advisor standpoint as well as the client standpoint. If equity had done the best in the last three years, obviously you would want to expose more to equity. So portfolios are largely tuned towards holding weightages in equity than actually debt. And debt was a very small component of the portfolio.
Speaker 1: Everybody.
Speaker 2: Until 2008 happened.
Speaker 1: Of course, yes. And who were the large distributors in 2003, Shaji? Were they banks or?
Speaker 2: So, uh, back in the days, you had wealth management dominated by MNCs.
Speaker 1: Foreign banks, basically.
Speaker 2: Foreign banks. Foreign banks were had a dominant position. That is purely driven by their brand and ability to do some basics of better. And the Indian private sector banks hadn't evolved to actually offer a full stack wealth management service. So foreign banks actually solved for it. They are the they are the real leaders at that point in time to solve for. So majority of us having spent our large part of our career in MNC banks or foreign banks, we've been through this cycle and the the the familiarity that the clients had for or the love that they had for uh MNC banks and foreign banks, it kind of helped, you know, some of us actually build career in, you know, Deutsche and Citibank and Barclay of the world. Uh, that that at that point in time even pure play wealth managers are not really there, you know, there are hardly few. And pure play wealth managers also building their business, they were at a very nation stage. And therefore MNC really, really took the dominance and they were the ones who are called the big boys then. Uh, and that trend over time changed. Today if you look at large part of the MNC banks or or foreign banks have vacated India. So there's very few of them present in India. And the entire pure play wealth managers are the ones who actually taken a dominant position. So the whole in the last 20 years I've seen MNC banks actually ruling this entire segment. Now, shit. Sorry. Should I continue?
Speaker 1: Continue. Continue.
Speaker 2: So, uh, so,
Speaker 1: We'll just start back back then how the MNC banks were.
Speaker 2: So MNC bank, MNC banks were ruling back in the days when when the whole wealth management start to take shape. And then eventually, you know, the the pure play wealth management firms took over from MNCs. Today they have a dominant position, pure play wealth managers have a dominant position. And we've also seen some of these uh pure play wealth managers now listed.
Speaker 1: Yeah.
Speaker 2: And we can also see a large part of their operating income, everything and where their assets are coming, the strategies, everything is now in public domain.
Speaker 1: So back in the day, was it aspirational to work with a foreign bank? Because then you would have a status.
Speaker 2: It was, Chiru, it was. Absolutely. So, you know, I'm a product of HDFC Bank and then immediately I, I wanted to be part of the growth that City saw in City Gold and wealth management business. So I quickly switched on to City and and thereafter you've got multiple opportunities, you know, Deutsche Bank was a very dominant player in wealth management business then, got a leadership position uh in Barclays. So you've been a part of the entire journey in the platform of that was built by foreign banks. But obviously there was there was uh a lot to do from an MNC bank standpoint, from a client portfolio. And the brand was also a big pull at that point in time. Yeah. So all of us, I'm sure you also have, but all of us have actually at that point in time had lot of love and affection for working for MNCs. Today that is completely shifted towards, you know, the pure play wealth managers because over time everyone has the the the senior relationship managers stroke bankers have realized pure play wealth management or wealth management firms are the are the place to be because you they're able to actually offer full stack wealth management solutions to clients.
Speaker 1: So what is this? Is it like a more confident India now that we are more confident about our own wealth players or is it to do with the technology where information is disseminated more easily? What has actually changed in the mindset of people that
Speaker 2: It's the success of the pure play wealth managers in the country, led by some of the firms who are now listed. It is the success of that cohort. And it is also that MNCs have actually vacated in India. And the banks have inherent conflict of interest. FD versus parking money in liquid funds or debt instruments, right? So MNCs have vacated largely private banks in India are doing fairly good job, but they are not acting as a pure advisor to the clients. And therefore the pure play advisory firms with the ability to manufacture products, with the ability to solve for multiple requirements of clients are the ones who are gaining lot of market share. And you've seen that reflecting in some of these large companies having, you know, 18, 20 years of uh vintage are now getting listed or some of them are already listed.
Speaker 1: So as a private banker, Shaji, are you like the thought leader of what happens in the investment world? Because if I look at a bank, there is a corporate bank and there is where you do deal with large corporates. There are retail banks, deposits, etcetera. Your loans are all taken care of. But when you think of a private banker, you must be the knowledge center of what's happening around the globe, connecting the dots and advising people or investments, right? Is that how a private banker can be defined?
Speaker 2: That's the aspiration, Chiru. The aspiration is to be the voice and be an advisor to clients. Therefore, we are able to add lot of and bring one performance and lot of legacies, right? So these are aspirational. Uh at client's portfolio level, we've been able to actually implement a lot of this and be able to actually deliver on returns. And on the other hand, clients also have need of building legacies. They have liquidity events. They have large uh net worth. And therefore, they would want to actually use their liquidity event and net worth to say something to the world about this this pool of net worth they've created, right? So, so therefore a lot of legacy conversations, how do we succession plan, what is estate planning, how do we build holding companies for clients. So there are multiple things beyond only actually looking at portfolios. So if you look at large clients, they have broadly two assets. One is business assets. Uh and second is portfolio, which is what liquid in nature and
Speaker 1: The investments, basically.
Speaker 2: Investments, basically. That's a portfolio. But if you look at business assets, that is also equally important for him because that is where large part of his net worth is sitting. It is listed or unlisted. And then then he has, you know, legacy real estate or real estate that is bought. So the, so these two things, the business assets and real estate are, you know, in business assets sometimes it's illiquid in nature and real estate is also equally important for him because large part of India's net worth sits in real estate today. Everyone's real estate today command majority of people's net worth. And then you have business assets as well. So these two components are very, very critical for us to address. How do we pass on this real estate to the next generation, how do we succession plan for the business ownership as well as management. And then at the bottom you have portfolios where the liquidity has come in and advisor has been able to add value. So, as a firm, if you want to be uh offering a full stack solution to everything as part of their net worth, then you have to take a different approach to building this kind of credibility with clients and reputation with clients. And therefore, you know, majority of the wealth managers today have built capability around not only portfolio management, it's beyond portfolio management to look after um uh portfolios, obviously, obviously clients really look at our value add on the portfolio set. But beyond that is also to look at things which are uh top down right from building framework around managing their money, uh business assets, personal assets and portfolio assets, but also on top transitioning the entire net worth to the next gen.
Speaker 1: So all of this comes under the ambit of private banking?
Speaker 2: Absolutely. Today it's changed and it is, it is where it is.
Speaker 1: And how have things changed with the advent of technology? Because there is so much of information. There is a WhatsApp university where people are educated on what's happening. So have clients become more informed than before? And then how does it impact your service? Because you're an advisor to them.
Speaker 2: So tech is a very important play in wealth. Uh, the usage of tech is between wealth manager and client. So there is usage of tech both sides. The wealth manager needs to be equipped with great internal tech for them to have a fabulous journey in the firm in order to make sure that their journey in the firm is fully tech enabled, right? If I'm able to actually finish a meeting and come out and through my through the iPad if I'm able to communicate internally with all the stakeholders and set certain job roles for each of them to complete basis your conversation with the client and even simple things like today AI provides all this. Simple things like if you are able to actually record the entire conversation that you had with the client and that system is able to deliver the entire transcript to you and be able to actually figure out who's the person who's going to solve for all this, you know, problem statement, objections that the client has raised. All this can be completely automatized to ensure the RM's journey is absolutely uh set for lot of productive conversations and not really spend time on execution. And therefore, I believe that even a wealth manager journey in the firm can be fully automate and as a result, everyone can be productive in the system. And from a client perspective, it is largely to do how client wants to read the, you know, any client want to read the report. If a client want wants to read the report in a certain way, then you hyper customize it for him, personalize it for him, right? So today if you let's just draw a parallel to Netflix. If you've got, if Netflix know that you like certain content that you've been watching, he has the full intelligence of having having you having the entire intelligence of you having seen certain content, it keeps prompting you the content that you may like. And that is the sort of uh technology that you want to raise where you're able to hyper customize and personalize the technology for clients from a reporting perspective. So this client wants to see only the IRR. This client wants to see a little more complicated than IRR, you know, you wants to compare with the benchmark. This client wants to see a particular instrument in the portfolio, how is that portfolio doing. Wants to see.

PART 2:
----------------------------------------
Speaker 1: debt is only doing our equities only. So you are able to actually personalize all these things for clients. So that's a that's a technology that I'm talking from a client's standpoint.
Speaker 2: Wow. And with AI coming in, possibly all of these things will be made even more easier.
Speaker 1: So AI is already at play. At Neo, we've already, um, large part of our, uh, tech work is on the AI side. We've, we've, we have certain AI already built with, already built in the firm. But it is again, you know, horizontal and vertical. Certain part of the business is already on AI platform, and some part of the business will move into AI. But largely to talk about the wealth management, the relationship manager and the client, which is where the AI plays big, the journey of relationship manager with the firm and the journey of clients. Both of them have to be, to my mind, completely, completely upgraded on technology and and completely AI enabled.
Speaker 2: Wow, okay.
Speaker 1: Uh,
Speaker 2: Today if we see there are different kind of wealth advisors, right? You hear of Robo advisors, you have, uh, tech first advisors, you have, of course, the pure play wealth firms that you represent, and there are banks. Now, how does one decide what is the right kind of advisor for them? Is it a function of the wealth they have, or how do they?
Speaker 1: Absolutely, it is indeed. Uh, if I were to pictorially put this for you, uh, from a pyramid standpoint, at the bottom of the pyramid, you have a large part of India. Then you have one in the center, is, uh, middle and upper middle class. Then you have the super rich of India. All of them engage with wealth managers differently.
Speaker 2: In some capacity.
Speaker 1: In some capacity and differently. At the bottom, you would perhaps use technology because they cannot, they do not have access to the wealth manager on an offline basis to guide them through. They'll probably use the tech because tech interface today have also reached a level where it's easier to transact on tech. Uh, then, you know, the next level comes in where banks have taken over the upper middle class, or middle class where banks are acting as advisor to them. And then the top class who are absolutely in need of a full stack wealth advisory. So, to my mind, all of them coexist for different segments. Now, one more segment I want to talk about is, is the segment where the young India want to be on tech. They don't want to interact with anybody.
Speaker 2: They want to do everything themselves.
Speaker 1: Themselves. So they are do it yourself model, DIY model. And there are some tech founders also very keen to do it yourself model to actually play on that model. And therefore, there will be this India, who's young and, you know, founder community, who are absolutely in love with the tech. And therefore, all execution happen on the tech, including the advisors. So, so there is set of, set of Indians who would want to be on the tech. There is set of Indian, who's a high-tech low-touch model. And there is a segment of India, who's, you know, tech is involved, but they also high-touch model. That's, to my mind, is the top end, which is what we cater to.
Speaker 2: When I hear you say this, high-touch and low-touch, right? I go back to this global financial crisis, when that happened, uh, financial distributors were largely blamed for mis-selling products. Uh, so I have two questions. How did the industry change after that? And B, if there is a low-touch model where it is a Robo advisor sort of a thing, where does the compliance rest? I mean, can somebody be blamed tomorrow that a computer has mis-sold me a product? Or the entire burden is then on the investor himself to understand where to invest, where not to invest, and then go ahead?
Speaker 1: Okay. The, the era where market went through a major bear phase, which is 2008 to almost 2008, 9 to about 13.
Speaker 2: Yeah.
Speaker 1: Yeah. 2013. Um, that is the first time clients experienced after four, five years of massive bull run, for, you know, market went from 3,000 to 21,000, right? So, it is seven X movement that you had seen and majority of our clients really did make phenomenal amount of capital growth. And in 2008, almost 50% of that got eroded.
Speaker 2: My God.
Speaker 1: Wow. Okay. Uh, as a result, obviously, then the biases that, you know, markets can behave, you know, with a, you know, draw down of as high as 50%, right?
Speaker 2: Kind of volatility they wouldn't have seen before.
Speaker 1: Never, never. And then it is also led by US. There are companies failing, and the news flows are always bad. All these factors actually influenced their future decisions. So, clients actually moved away from equity, largely to debt portfolio. So, 2010 to about 2013, large part of inflows of money has gone into debt, just for your information. Okay. But then what it did was, the importance of asset allocation came into forefront. So, people then realized the asset allocation is critical and therefore, asset allocation became a conversation as to how to allocate money to various asset classes, and because all asset classes do not have the same correlation. So, the non-correlated asset classes have to start, uh, start to actually come on, uh, come in the portfolio. So, gold, uh, debt took a dominance in the portfolio. Equity, within equity itself, whether to allocate to midcap, smallcap, largecap, conversation came in.
Speaker 2: Did you have private equity also back then or not so much?
Speaker 1: So, it started to come. So, 2007, 8, there are very few private equity funds in the country. So, but 2000, uh, 15, 16, or 14, 16 onwards, is when the private equity came into a big play into client's portfolio. But until then, but within the asset classes, the mutual funds, PMS, uh, then you, you started to look at real estate debt instruments. So, a lot of instruments started to come in because then clients were actually looking to create a portfolio which is more stable than capital growth. So, preservation of capital became a conversation than actually a conversation around capital appreciation. Uh, so this is, uh, this are absolutely normal. People do, uh, go through these cycles and basis market behavior, they decide which asset class to favor. In all this, the good, good news is, in 2014 is when the equity market started to move, uh, positively and start to show a different results from change of government. And thereafter, regulators have come in and changed a lot of things to make sure that this whole wealth management piece is absolutely regulated business and and regulator's interference really helped put a lot of sanity into the business.
Speaker 2: Because the industry was notorious for mis-selling, I suppose, or...
Speaker 1: So, there was no mis-selling to my mind. It is lack of understanding from a client's side, lack of understanding from, uh, from wealth management, wealth manager's side. I wouldn't call it mis-selling. It is just the the, you know, uh, because there was a fabulous return that came from equity. Yeah. You kept going back to investing in equity, and when there was a massive draw down, the entire market fell. There was nobody who was spared. I know some of the best managed companies in the country fell 40, 50%. Yeah. Um, so therefore, there was no place to hide. So, whole portfolio fell. So, there was no mis-selling, but obviously, you know, not, people not really understood that equity could be as volatile as what it was in the year 2008. That led to being a little more measured in taking risk and portfolio started to look different from client's perspective earlier. Equity was only asset class dominated, then debt was started dominated and then slowly evolved to create asset allocation and spread across all asset classes. And that led to emergence of asset classes like real estate, debt, asset, class, gold, asset classes like silver, all that start to, uh, reflect in the portfolio.
Speaker 2: So, like alternate asset classes. Absolutely. Was that the time when direct code was also launched by the regulators?
Speaker 1: So, regulators have been absolutely, uh, supportive of, uh, wealth. Uh, they have, uh, reformed this entire wealth management industry with various way of position that you could take with clients. Whether you want to be a distributor, but make it transparent with clients saying you are a distributor, uh, or...
Speaker 2: As an, as a distributor, I sell products and earn a commission from the product manufacturer.
Speaker 1: Absolutely. It's like any distribution where you sell a ex product. Ex product has a embedded commission for the distributor, and after executing the transaction, that commission is paid to the distributor. And the distributor's job is to keep providing information about that product that was advised or distributed by them. And over time, every year, the, the distributor gets paid for his service that he has, uh, delivered to the client. Then, uh, an introduction of direct code came in, where clients were given direct option, or investors were given direct option to invest with the fund house. So, fund houses would approach a client directly and the client would directly place the money with the fund house. Obviously, there is, uh, that's not a, that's not a model that, uh, that even clients would appreciate. They don't get the best out of it.
Speaker 2: But they do have a benefit of not paying the distributor commission, saving on it, right?
Speaker 1: But then you still need a person in between to be able to create a portfolio for him. Sure. In this case, largely it'll be a one single instrument, and there is obviously a conflict of interest there also exist if if AMC is directly reach out to the client. So, I'm not sure if that is the best model, the highly optimized model from a client's perspective, because every fund house who's going to be interacting with the client would always pitch their product and he's not looking for a diversified portfolio.
Speaker 2: Right.
Speaker 1: For a diversification purpose, you still need a relation manager stroke banker or a wealth manager in client's portfolio. Therefore, the best products can be placed in client's portfolio for the outcome that he expects from that portfolio. So, that's broadly what it is. And then, uh, the, the advisory code was introduced by Sebi. Advisory code when it came, uh, sorry. The advisory code was introduced and advisory code kind of helped wealth managers to take a position whether to be a distributor or an advisor, uh, or, or any other position that you would want to take, right?
Speaker 2: So, as an advisor, I'll reach out to a client and tell them where to invest, in direct code still, but I earn an advisory fee from the client instead of the product manufacturer. Is that correct?
Speaker 1: So, to simplify this, Churu, it is simple. Uh, distribution investors, distributors invest in regular code. Advisors invest in direct code. Okay. In regular code, there is an embedded fees for the, or a commission for the distributor, which is directly paid by the manufacturer to the distributor. In advisory relationship, advisors advise of underlying instruments to the client, but invests in direct code. So, he doesn't get paid by the manufacturer of the product. He's absolutely non-conflicted, right? So, therefore, he's, he's paid by the client who's taking his service as an advisor. Okay. Okay. So, the client gets the benefit of lower fees by investing in direct code. And he would part way with his part of, the commission that, the commission that he didn't earn, you would actually get the advisory fees levy to his client and client would pay to him. So, this is the most, most non-conflicted relationship that you can imagine.
Speaker 2: That appears to be the best model, right? Because then I'm like any other service provider like a doctor or a lawyer who's just rendering an advice and then earning a fee on the advice, I guess.
Speaker 1: This is the model which will evolve in future. The large part of clients are going to move into this model. One, it is non-conflicted, it is also transparency, and third is it's a low cost model. So, all three are being met through a advisory relationship as opposed to have a distribution relationship.
Speaker 2: Wow. So, that is where the industry is headed in terms of banks or so?
Speaker 1: It will eventually everybody will go into this model, but there exists some segment of clients who would still want, uh, do not want to cut a check because advisory fees would mean that a fees that goes out of client's book, uh, client's P&L. So, somebody
Speaker 2: May not prefer it.
Speaker 1: Clients, clients who are happy to actually for advisor to, or a distributor to earn through their product. They'll continue to coexist along with. But large part of the business will move to the advisory model.
Speaker 2: And what happens globally? Uh, like in developed market, which model is more prevalent? Is it the distribution model or the advisory model?
Speaker 1: So, all models coexist, Churu. There is no specific model that will work. So, ultimately, clients are okay for distributors to make money or advisor to make money. They just want to see the value add that the distributor or advisor. So, ultimately, it boils down to the value add, how good a relationship manager are you at the end of the day, and how well you service the client, and lastly, what is the performance of the portfolio. The trust and the relationship gets built over time and only way to actually measure this is through the performance of the portfolio. And to perform, you need innovation, right? You need newer products. So, over the last 10 years, how has the industry changed? Any major innovations that have happened in the wealth industry?
Speaker 2: And to perform, you need innovation, right? You need newer products. So, over the last 10 years, how has the industry changed? Any major innovations that have happened in the wealth industry?
Speaker 1: So, in India, the, you know, innovation is limited within the limitation, the innovation has been stellar. Um, when AIF was introduced, I think in 2013 or 14 as a concept, it was supposed to be a game changer. And today, if you look at alternate asset class in India is growing faster than the other asset classes. So, alternate asset class growth in India in the last 10, 12 years has been stellar. And that is where the innovation is possible. So, we've seen the rise of pre-IPO investing. You've seen the rise of late stage investing.
Speaker 2: So, what are, what is a pre-IPO investing and a late stage, if you can explain to the viewers?
Speaker 1: It is companies who are getting ready to go for IPO. Uh, you know, one or two years prior, when they're getting ready one or two years prior, that you get an opportunity to invest in such companies. Okay. The idea is to capture them when they are matured companies. When the IPO happens, the expectation is the price will be higher than what they are in today's.
Speaker 2: And the risk is low because they are already late stage, they're already
Speaker 1: They are not, there is zero fatality, very high probability of it being very successful. But they're in near zero. I wouldn't say zero, but near zero of risk of fatality. Very high chances of it actually giving a very high return. So, over the last 10, 12 years, you've seen alternate asset class is also coming into client's portfolio in a meaningful way. It is not overexposed to, but in a very meaningful way. Either through private equity investing, or late stage within the private equity, the early stage, mid-stage and late stage. And some of our real estate equity and debt transactions invest through.

PART 3:
----------------------------------------
Speaker 1: Uh, alternate AIFs.
Speaker 2: AIFs, alternate investment fund. Fund, yeah, AIFs. Thirdly, uh, the new asset class which is taking shape and done very well in the last three to five years is the special credit. In fact, it's not three to five years, it will be seven, eight years, is special credit, which is a debt instrument which can yield you returns closer to that 15, 16 mark, going up to 20, 22% mark. So, on a debt product that you are earning 22%. So, the innovation in the last 10 years in wealth management has been stellar and large part of the innovation has happened in the alternate investment fund asset class. So that's where the innovation is today.
Speaker 1: And when you look at Indian investments, right? Or where Indians invest, it's largely domiciled in India. Now, what are the roots if some for somebody having a global aspiration, sitting here in India, if I want to hold an Apple stock or a Facebook stock, what's the way for me to do that?
Speaker 2: So the one thing that I missed telling you is also about structured products. Yeah. There are lot of innovation that has happened in structured products as well. Some of the firms have really, really done well on structured products. Structured products is where clients want to participate in equity, but do not want to go through the volatility of equity. And thus you, you go through the structured product with certain level of principle protection and then the upside of equity is given to you. This is, these are two areas where I've seen large part of the innovation from the industry. So structured products is going to going to continuously be seen in client's portfolios who are comfortable taking equity, uh, through a capital protected structure as supposed to going through the entire volatility of the market. Though the taxation doesn't favor them, but I still feel that structured product can actually come back and reflect in client's portfolios.
Speaker 1: So I'll just spend some time on structured product. You said there is no volatility of an equity market, but then I still participate in the equity market.
Speaker 2: Yeah. So it is created to give you, uh, fixed income plus returns. Okay. Uh, if you are an investor who is anticipating a certain level of return on investing, but at the same time if equity did very well, I want to participate in equity, we can, we have the ability to actually build clients, uh, you know, these objectives into a product and convert their absolutely customized need into a product and deliver on their expectation of returns with a base level of return with the capital protection and then beyond that is subject to markets doing very well.
Speaker 1: This is an amazing product, right? Because you get to participate in equity and still.
Speaker 2: It is very, very popular globally. In India also few wealth moms do it very effectively. And this space is something to my mind will evolve. And taxation does not favor them today. That's why large part of the banker community are not too happy with it. But if you are able to customize things for clients and treat this as a fixed income instrument, then actually treating it as like a substitute to equity. I would, I would say if you put it under fixed income, perhaps this has a, this has a long future. Amazing.
Speaker 1: And if you look at the investment portfolio of Indians like largely, we are all investing in Indian debt, Indian equity. If I want to invest in a foreign equity like a Facebook or an Amazon, what are the avenues that I have sitting here in India? Is it possible?
Speaker 2: It is absolutely possible. So under liberalized remittance scheme, one is allowed to take 250,000. Per year. Per annum. A family of three or four can take about, you know, 750 to about a million dollar offshore every year. Okay. Which allows you to one set up the account in place like, you know, Singapore, Gift City or any other locations. And after having parked that money there, and you you have the option to either open a broking account in Singapore with Interactive Broker or few others who offer these services. And through them you can buy into stocks at any point in time, right? So you actually trade on or invest in those stocks. So one can build a portfolio of stocks, one can build a portfolio of index funds, ETFs, and there are some platforms which offer you alternate asset class like, you know, long-term investing in Blackstone instruments and stuff like that. So, can one create a portfolio? The answer is a yes. And these platforms are available offshore. You are allowed to take about a million dollar. Five years down the line as a family, if you are able to take, if you are able to take about four or five million dollars, then it's a sizable amount of corpus offshore. Absolutely. And you are able to build some good portfolios and and once you build a certain size, you'll also get to be serviced by some of the large private banking arms globally, the UBS of the world, Goldman Sachs of the world.
Speaker 1: You just mentioned Gift City. I'm always curious, what is this Gift City? Is it still part of India or is it like an SEZ and what happens there?
Speaker 2: Gift City is nothing but an alternate, a substitute created for money actually going out of India to Singapore as an example. Singapore could be your destination that you transfer money to, but it's an alternate that you created for for Singapore. But then all the activity is happening within India. Okay. It's a, it's a place in Gujarat that is converted or given the status. And there are regulators, IFSCA regulator, which is International Financial Services Company. I didn't write it, but okay. We'll just edit this. IFSCA, you can just say. So IFSCA, there is a regulator. And the idea is to actually start building global investing inbound and outbound. So outbound is global investing for us.
Speaker 1: The LRS that you are mentioning.
Speaker 2: The LRS that you can start investing globally through a fund structure, or you can actually bring money to India. Large part of our NRI community and foreign nationals who want to invest in India, there are vehicles that are there are available through Gift City for them to invest in India.
Speaker 1: Wow. So all the NRI community in the US, Dubai, if they want to invest in India, so this is.
Speaker 2: Any part of the world, they can use Gift City structure to come into India. They will eventually get invested in Indian equity market or any other asset classes. And people through LRS who would want to build portfolios outside India, you can go through some of these funds who invest in developed market, developing market, emerging market, all sorts of ideas and structures are available through to be invested through Gift City. So it's a, it's a evolving, uh, to my mind, an option for clients to invest in. But I think it will evolve in a big way over over the next a decade or so. Today, uh, majority of our Indian asset management companies, they are either creating Gift City funds to invest into India or investing outside India.
Speaker 1: And it is fully repatriable, is it? It can just come in in dollars and then go back in dollars.
Speaker 2: So in simple terms, all the investments done by NRIs and foreign nationals are investing in the units of the fund which is domiciled in Gift City. Underlying instrument is India investing and they just place the redemption to the units that they own in the Gift City and they would get their money back. So absolutely repatriable from that perspective. And they don't have to deal with tax filing and all of that. And majority of these countries, country have almost tax-free income from Gift City instruments. Uh, money going out similarly, money that goes out from India, if you invest through Gift City structure, depending on what kind of underlying instrument that you are investing. So the India taxation is applicable for that.
Speaker 1: Amazing. Wealth in India, as it is growing a lot, right? We see a lot of ads everywhere, in movie theaters, matches, cricket matches, everywhere we see the ads of wealth outfits very majorly these days. What exactly is happening? Are Indians becoming richer and richer?
Speaker 2: Absolutely, you can see that from 2003 till now, our GDP has grown eight X. We are a four trillion dollar economy and when I started my career it was a half a trillion economy. When when half a trillion becomes a four trillion, obviously there is a massive amount of wealth creation that happens. And as a result, uh, there is huge amount of requirement of uh, wealth managers, managing wealth of these Indians, right? But the pace at which wealth has grown, the wealth managers haven't grown in the same pace. The wealth has grown a lot bigger and wealth managers, uh, you know, number of wealth managers catering to that to my mind is a fraction of what kind of wealth that has grown. So going by the opportunity that we that exist in wealth management as the market and the economy and everything grows, I think there is a shortage of talent in India to cater to clients who are going to come into money or potential millionaires and billionaires that get made out of India. So therefore it's a great opportunity for somebody actually looking to build a wealth management career. One is there exists a need of a wealth manager. That is established. Then it's the wealth manager's ability to understand and be able to actually, uh, provide that entire wealth management service to the clients is where the tricky part is there, there exists the tricky part. And it is tricky because large part of your technical skills, I think will be addressed through the technology. Technology will be made available to all these wealth managers for them to be able to quickly refer to things and be able to ready for the answer. Where they need to really build is their soft skills, their leadership skills and and client's behavioral, um, side that as a wealth manager, you should be able to provide such, uh, you know, expertise on that. So, so it's a great career to build. I think it has huge potential. Uh, the industry itself is going through a massive tailwind. Like I said, India grows, more wealth gets generated. There are very, very few talent who are catering to this wealth and there's that's massive shortage. So this is the best situation to be in. Back in 2000, maybe 80s, sorry, in 80s, I think IT, IT, uh, went through IT sector went through a similar phase. It had a 20 year or maybe 15 years of rally because there is short of talent, but the business was booming. I see a similar event that is getting played out. That big. Yeah. It may not be. Because I'm just drawing a parallel to for you to understand what could potentially mean that the business is growing.
Speaker 1: There's a skill gap basically.
Speaker 2: There is a skill gap, there is a shortage of talent. And resulting in obviously, you know, attracting more talent to go into this industry and that requires a completely different skill set at this point in time for somebody to build a career in wealth.
Speaker 1: So what would be your advice to our viewers who are aspiring to have a career in wealth management? What should they hone and what should they you know, start working towards?
Speaker 2: Cheru, it's it's, uh, it's an industry which will grow. Uh, the moment you align yourself to the industry that grows, 90% of your problem statement has been addressed. So you are in a country which is growing. You are then in an industry which is growing. Then choose the right wealth management firm and grow with that wealth management firm with your attribute of, you know, be able to cater to the wealth management seeking clients, right? So the alignment here is to make sure that you wear advisory hat and be able to advise the client, win their trust and continue to perform in clients' portfolio. It requires major commitment, uh, competence to the level that you understand clients and be able to create that portfolio. And obviously, there are products that are available in the market which you are able to comprehend, be able to deliver in client's portfolio. Sure. Lastly, uh, gone are the days where you are, you are able to impress clients on your product capability. Today, you are able, you should be signing off as a CIO for the client and that's the kind of need that I think will, will exist in clients from the client's side. They would expect you to act as their CFO or a CIO. Right? Be able to design their investment policy statement, be able to discuss on cross-border, uh, requirement, be able to talk on taxation, be able to talk about structuring, be able to talk about family constitution, charter, building a charter around, be able to talk about succession planning, be able to talk about estate planning. So your role from just being a product manager or a product vendor, you'll have to now deliver a full-fledged advisory architecture to the client. That involves many things beyond only product. The product is kind of solved for. What is broken right now is to be an advisor to the client and be able to handle multiple things that he is seeking from you. To create a charter, to identifying a product. So that entire journey, if as a wealth manager, if you are talented, if you are competent and if you are committed to do this, I think I think you have a brightest future in this industry as we go from four trillion dollars economy to 20 trillion dollars economy, as we go from markets of 80,000 on Sensex.
Speaker 1: Maybe five lakhs on Sensex.
Speaker 2: I don't know what the number is, but in this entire journey, the tailwind is very strong, but as a person, you should be able to actually sign off as a CFO CIO to the client and with that attitude and with that commitment, I think this industry is the best industry and the brightest industry to be in.
Speaker 1: Thank you so much Sharaj for this insightful discussion. I'm sure our viewers have gained a lot from your experience and a lot to think about for someone who wants to start a career in wealth management now. Thank you so much for your time.
Speaker 2: Thanks, Cheru. It's a lovely catching up with you. Thank you so much for such lovely questions. Thank you so much.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Wrap. Did we do well? Yeah, I think it was good. It was very conversational, right? I don't think.
Speaker 2: So it's not.
Speaker 1: Cheru sir. Hello? Ho gaya?
Speaker 2: Ho gaya.
Speaker 1: Starting ka welcome kar do na.
Speaker 2: Starting ka welcome wapis se karu? Ha, sirf welcome karo aur first question karo unko. Bas, khatam kar de. Aap sawal karo, khatam. Ha, starting ka. Okay. Continue, continue. Thank you so much, Raj, for joining us on this episode. It's a delight to have you here.
Speaker 2: My pleasure.
Speaker 1: You've been in the industry for 20 long years. So I just want to take you back to the time when you have started your career. How was the industry back then? If you can share some insights with our viewers. Yes, done. Pehla question kuch aur tha, I think, na.
Speaker 2: I.
Speaker 1: He was there.

================================================================================
END OF COMBINED TRANSCRIPT
================================================================================
