PART 2 TRANSCRIPT
----------------------------------------
Speaker 1: debt is only doing our equities only. So you are able to actually personalize all these things for clients. So that's a that's a technology that I'm talking from a client's standpoint.
Speaker 2: Wow. And with AI coming in, possibly all of these things will be made even more easier.
Speaker 1: So AI is already at play. At Neo, we've already, um, large part of our, uh, tech work is on the AI side. We've, we've, we have certain AI already built with, already built in the firm. But it is again, you know, horizontal and vertical. Certain part of the business is already on AI platform, and some part of the business will move into AI. But largely to talk about the wealth management, the relationship manager and the client, which is where the AI plays big, the journey of relationship manager with the firm and the journey of clients. Both of them have to be, to my mind, completely, completely upgraded on technology and and completely AI enabled.
Speaker 2: Wow, okay.
Speaker 1: Uh,
Speaker 2: Today if we see there are different kind of wealth advisors, right? You hear of Robo advisors, you have, uh, tech first advisors, you have, of course, the pure play wealth firms that you represent, and there are banks. Now, how does one decide what is the right kind of advisor for them? Is it a function of the wealth they have, or how do they?
Speaker 1: Absolutely, it is indeed. Uh, if I were to pictorially put this for you, uh, from a pyramid standpoint, at the bottom of the pyramid, you have a large part of India. Then you have one in the center, is, uh, middle and upper middle class. Then you have the super rich of India. All of them engage with wealth managers differently.
Speaker 2: In some capacity.
Speaker 1: In some capacity and differently. At the bottom, you would perhaps use technology because they cannot, they do not have access to the wealth manager on an offline basis to guide them through. They'll probably use the tech because tech interface today have also reached a level where it's easier to transact on tech. Uh, then, you know, the next level comes in where banks have taken over the upper middle class, or middle class where banks are acting as advisor to them. And then the top class who are absolutely in need of a full stack wealth advisory. So, to my mind, all of them coexist for different segments. Now, one more segment I want to talk about is, is the segment where the young India want to be on tech. They don't want to interact with anybody.
Speaker 2: They want to do everything themselves.
Speaker 1: Themselves. So they are do it yourself model, DIY model. And there are some tech founders also very keen to do it yourself model to actually play on that model. And therefore, there will be this India, who's young and, you know, founder community, who are absolutely in love with the tech. And therefore, all execution happen on the tech, including the advisors. So, so there is set of, set of Indians who would want to be on the tech. There is set of Indian, who's a high-tech low-touch model. And there is a segment of India, who's, you know, tech is involved, but they also high-touch model. That's, to my mind, is the top end, which is what we cater to.
Speaker 2: When I hear you say this, high-touch and low-touch, right? I go back to this global financial crisis, when that happened, uh, financial distributors were largely blamed for mis-selling products. Uh, so I have two questions. How did the industry change after that? And B, if there is a low-touch model where it is a Robo advisor sort of a thing, where does the compliance rest? I mean, can somebody be blamed tomorrow that a computer has mis-sold me a product? Or the entire burden is then on the investor himself to understand where to invest, where not to invest, and then go ahead?
Speaker 1: Okay. The, the era where market went through a major bear phase, which is 2008 to almost 2008, 9 to about 13.
Speaker 2: Yeah.
Speaker 1: Yeah. 2013. Um, that is the first time clients experienced after four, five years of massive bull run, for, you know, market went from 3,000 to 21,000, right? So, it is seven X movement that you had seen and majority of our clients really did make phenomenal amount of capital growth. And in 2008, almost 50% of that got eroded.
Speaker 2: My God.
Speaker 1: Wow. Okay. Uh, as a result, obviously, then the biases that, you know, markets can behave, you know, with a, you know, draw down of as high as 50%, right?
Speaker 2: Kind of volatility they wouldn't have seen before.
Speaker 1: Never, never. And then it is also led by US. There are companies failing, and the news flows are always bad. All these factors actually influenced their future decisions. So, clients actually moved away from equity, largely to debt portfolio. So, 2010 to about 2013, large part of inflows of money has gone into debt, just for your information. Okay. But then what it did was, the importance of asset allocation came into forefront. So, people then realized the asset allocation is critical and therefore, asset allocation became a conversation as to how to allocate money to various asset classes, and because all asset classes do not have the same correlation. So, the non-correlated asset classes have to start, uh, start to actually come on, uh, come in the portfolio. So, gold, uh, debt took a dominance in the portfolio. Equity, within equity itself, whether to allocate to midcap, smallcap, largecap, conversation came in.
Speaker 2: Did you have private equity also back then or not so much?
Speaker 1: So, it started to come. So, 2007, 8, there are very few private equity funds in the country. So, but 2000, uh, 15, 16, or 14, 16 onwards, is when the private equity came into a big play into client's portfolio. But until then, but within the asset classes, the mutual funds, PMS, uh, then you, you started to look at real estate debt instruments. So, a lot of instruments started to come in because then clients were actually looking to create a portfolio which is more stable than capital growth. So, preservation of capital became a conversation than actually a conversation around capital appreciation. Uh, so this is, uh, this are absolutely normal. People do, uh, go through these cycles and basis market behavior, they decide which asset class to favor. In all this, the good, good news is, in 2014 is when the equity market started to move, uh, positively and start to show a different results from change of government. And thereafter, regulators have come in and changed a lot of things to make sure that this whole wealth management piece is absolutely regulated business and and regulator's interference really helped put a lot of sanity into the business.
Speaker 2: Because the industry was notorious for mis-selling, I suppose, or...
Speaker 1: So, there was no mis-selling to my mind. It is lack of understanding from a client's side, lack of understanding from, uh, from wealth management, wealth manager's side. I wouldn't call it mis-selling. It is just the the, you know, uh, because there was a fabulous return that came from equity. Yeah. You kept going back to investing in equity, and when there was a massive draw down, the entire market fell. There was nobody who was spared. I know some of the best managed companies in the country fell 40, 50%. Yeah. Um, so therefore, there was no place to hide. So, whole portfolio fell. So, there was no mis-selling, but obviously, you know, not, people not really understood that equity could be as volatile as what it was in the year 2008. That led to being a little more measured in taking risk and portfolio started to look different from client's perspective earlier. Equity was only asset class dominated, then debt was started dominated and then slowly evolved to create asset allocation and spread across all asset classes. And that led to emergence of asset classes like real estate, debt, asset, class, gold, asset classes like silver, all that start to, uh, reflect in the portfolio.
Speaker 2: So, like alternate asset classes. Absolutely. Was that the time when direct code was also launched by the regulators?
Speaker 1: So, regulators have been absolutely, uh, supportive of, uh, wealth. Uh, they have, uh, reformed this entire wealth management industry with various way of position that you could take with clients. Whether you want to be a distributor, but make it transparent with clients saying you are a distributor, uh, or...
Speaker 2: As an, as a distributor, I sell products and earn a commission from the product manufacturer.
Speaker 1: Absolutely. It's like any distribution where you sell a ex product. Ex product has a embedded commission for the distributor, and after executing the transaction, that commission is paid to the distributor. And the distributor's job is to keep providing information about that product that was advised or distributed by them. And over time, every year, the, the distributor gets paid for his service that he has, uh, delivered to the client. Then, uh, an introduction of direct code came in, where clients were given direct option, or investors were given direct option to invest with the fund house. So, fund houses would approach a client directly and the client would directly place the money with the fund house. Obviously, there is, uh, that's not a, that's not a model that, uh, that even clients would appreciate. They don't get the best out of it.
Speaker 2: But they do have a benefit of not paying the distributor commission, saving on it, right?
Speaker 1: But then you still need a person in between to be able to create a portfolio for him. Sure. In this case, largely it'll be a one single instrument, and there is obviously a conflict of interest there also exist if if AMC is directly reach out to the client. So, I'm not sure if that is the best model, the highly optimized model from a client's perspective, because every fund house who's going to be interacting with the client would always pitch their product and he's not looking for a diversified portfolio.
Speaker 2: Right.
Speaker 1: For a diversification purpose, you still need a relation manager stroke banker or a wealth manager in client's portfolio. Therefore, the best products can be placed in client's portfolio for the outcome that he expects from that portfolio. So, that's broadly what it is. And then, uh, the, the advisory code was introduced by Sebi. Advisory code when it came, uh, sorry. The advisory code was introduced and advisory code kind of helped wealth managers to take a position whether to be a distributor or an advisor, uh, or, or any other position that you would want to take, right?
Speaker 2: So, as an advisor, I'll reach out to a client and tell them where to invest, in direct code still, but I earn an advisory fee from the client instead of the product manufacturer. Is that correct?
Speaker 1: So, to simplify this, Churu, it is simple. Uh, distribution investors, distributors invest in regular code. Advisors invest in direct code. Okay. In regular code, there is an embedded fees for the, or a commission for the distributor, which is directly paid by the manufacturer to the distributor. In advisory relationship, advisors advise of underlying instruments to the client, but invests in direct code. So, he doesn't get paid by the manufacturer of the product. He's absolutely non-conflicted, right? So, therefore, he's, he's paid by the client who's taking his service as an advisor. Okay. Okay. So, the client gets the benefit of lower fees by investing in direct code. And he would part way with his part of, the commission that, the commission that he didn't earn, you would actually get the advisory fees levy to his client and client would pay to him. So, this is the most, most non-conflicted relationship that you can imagine.
Speaker 2: That appears to be the best model, right? Because then I'm like any other service provider like a doctor or a lawyer who's just rendering an advice and then earning a fee on the advice, I guess.
Speaker 1: This is the model which will evolve in future. The large part of clients are going to move into this model. One, it is non-conflicted, it is also transparency, and third is it's a low cost model. So, all three are being met through a advisory relationship as opposed to have a distribution relationship.
Speaker 2: Wow. So, that is where the industry is headed in terms of banks or so?
Speaker 1: It will eventually everybody will go into this model, but there exists some segment of clients who would still want, uh, do not want to cut a check because advisory fees would mean that a fees that goes out of client's book, uh, client's P&L. So, somebody
Speaker 2: May not prefer it.
Speaker 1: Clients, clients who are happy to actually for advisor to, or a distributor to earn through their product. They'll continue to coexist along with. But large part of the business will move to the advisory model.
Speaker 2: And what happens globally? Uh, like in developed market, which model is more prevalent? Is it the distribution model or the advisory model?
Speaker 1: So, all models coexist, Churu. There is no specific model that will work. So, ultimately, clients are okay for distributors to make money or advisor to make money. They just want to see the value add that the distributor or advisor. So, ultimately, it boils down to the value add, how good a relationship manager are you at the end of the day, and how well you service the client, and lastly, what is the performance of the portfolio. The trust and the relationship gets built over time and only way to actually measure this is through the performance of the portfolio. And to perform, you need innovation, right? You need newer products. So, over the last 10 years, how has the industry changed? Any major innovations that have happened in the wealth industry?
Speaker 2: And to perform, you need innovation, right? You need newer products. So, over the last 10 years, how has the industry changed? Any major innovations that have happened in the wealth industry?
Speaker 1: So, in India, the, you know, innovation is limited within the limitation, the innovation has been stellar. Um, when AIF was introduced, I think in 2013 or 14 as a concept, it was supposed to be a game changer. And today, if you look at alternate asset class in India is growing faster than the other asset classes. So, alternate asset class growth in India in the last 10, 12 years has been stellar. And that is where the innovation is possible. So, we've seen the rise of pre-IPO investing. You've seen the rise of late stage investing.
Speaker 2: So, what are, what is a pre-IPO investing and a late stage, if you can explain to the viewers?
Speaker 1: It is companies who are getting ready to go for IPO. Uh, you know, one or two years prior, when they're getting ready one or two years prior, that you get an opportunity to invest in such companies. Okay. The idea is to capture them when they are matured companies. When the IPO happens, the expectation is the price will be higher than what they are in today's.
Speaker 2: And the risk is low because they are already late stage, they're already
Speaker 1: They are not, there is zero fatality, very high probability of it being very successful. But they're in near zero. I wouldn't say zero, but near zero of risk of fatality. Very high chances of it actually giving a very high return. So, over the last 10, 12 years, you've seen alternate asset class is also coming into client's portfolio in a meaningful way. It is not overexposed to, but in a very meaningful way. Either through private equity investing, or late stage within the private equity, the early stage, mid-stage and late stage. And some of our real estate equity and debt transactions invest through.