PART 3 TRANSCRIPT
----------------------------------------
Speaker 1: Uh, alternate AIFs.
Speaker 2: AIFs, alternate investment fund. Fund, yeah, AIFs. Thirdly, uh, the new asset class which is taking shape and done very well in the last three to five years is the special credit. In fact, it's not three to five years, it will be seven, eight years, is special credit, which is a debt instrument which can yield you returns closer to that 15, 16 mark, going up to 20, 22% mark. So, on a debt product that you are earning 22%. So, the innovation in the last 10 years in wealth management has been stellar and large part of the innovation has happened in the alternate investment fund asset class. So that's where the innovation is today.
Speaker 1: And when you look at Indian investments, right? Or where Indians invest, it's largely domiciled in India. Now, what are the roots if some for somebody having a global aspiration, sitting here in India, if I want to hold an Apple stock or a Facebook stock, what's the way for me to do that?
Speaker 2: So the one thing that I missed telling you is also about structured products. Yeah. There are lot of innovation that has happened in structured products as well. Some of the firms have really, really done well on structured products. Structured products is where clients want to participate in equity, but do not want to go through the volatility of equity. And thus you, you go through the structured product with certain level of principle protection and then the upside of equity is given to you. This is, these are two areas where I've seen large part of the innovation from the industry. So structured products is going to going to continuously be seen in client's portfolios who are comfortable taking equity, uh, through a capital protected structure as supposed to going through the entire volatility of the market. Though the taxation doesn't favor them, but I still feel that structured product can actually come back and reflect in client's portfolios.
Speaker 1: So I'll just spend some time on structured product. You said there is no volatility of an equity market, but then I still participate in the equity market.
Speaker 2: Yeah. So it is created to give you, uh, fixed income plus returns. Okay. Uh, if you are an investor who is anticipating a certain level of return on investing, but at the same time if equity did very well, I want to participate in equity, we can, we have the ability to actually build clients, uh, you know, these objectives into a product and convert their absolutely customized need into a product and deliver on their expectation of returns with a base level of return with the capital protection and then beyond that is subject to markets doing very well.
Speaker 1: This is an amazing product, right? Because you get to participate in equity and still.
Speaker 2: It is very, very popular globally. In India also few wealth moms do it very effectively. And this space is something to my mind will evolve. And taxation does not favor them today. That's why large part of the banker community are not too happy with it. But if you are able to customize things for clients and treat this as a fixed income instrument, then actually treating it as like a substitute to equity. I would, I would say if you put it under fixed income, perhaps this has a, this has a long future. Amazing.
Speaker 1: And if you look at the investment portfolio of Indians like largely, we are all investing in Indian debt, Indian equity. If I want to invest in a foreign equity like a Facebook or an Amazon, what are the avenues that I have sitting here in India? Is it possible?
Speaker 2: It is absolutely possible. So under liberalized remittance scheme, one is allowed to take 250,000. Per year. Per annum. A family of three or four can take about, you know, 750 to about a million dollar offshore every year. Okay. Which allows you to one set up the account in place like, you know, Singapore, Gift City or any other locations. And after having parked that money there, and you you have the option to either open a broking account in Singapore with Interactive Broker or few others who offer these services. And through them you can buy into stocks at any point in time, right? So you actually trade on or invest in those stocks. So one can build a portfolio of stocks, one can build a portfolio of index funds, ETFs, and there are some platforms which offer you alternate asset class like, you know, long-term investing in Blackstone instruments and stuff like that. So, can one create a portfolio? The answer is a yes. And these platforms are available offshore. You are allowed to take about a million dollar. Five years down the line as a family, if you are able to take, if you are able to take about four or five million dollars, then it's a sizable amount of corpus offshore. Absolutely. And you are able to build some good portfolios and and once you build a certain size, you'll also get to be serviced by some of the large private banking arms globally, the UBS of the world, Goldman Sachs of the world.
Speaker 1: You just mentioned Gift City. I'm always curious, what is this Gift City? Is it still part of India or is it like an SEZ and what happens there?
Speaker 2: Gift City is nothing but an alternate, a substitute created for money actually going out of India to Singapore as an example. Singapore could be your destination that you transfer money to, but it's an alternate that you created for for Singapore. But then all the activity is happening within India. Okay. It's a, it's a place in Gujarat that is converted or given the status. And there are regulators, IFSCA regulator, which is International Financial Services Company. I didn't write it, but okay. We'll just edit this. IFSCA, you can just say. So IFSCA, there is a regulator. And the idea is to actually start building global investing inbound and outbound. So outbound is global investing for us.
Speaker 1: The LRS that you are mentioning.
Speaker 2: The LRS that you can start investing globally through a fund structure, or you can actually bring money to India. Large part of our NRI community and foreign nationals who want to invest in India, there are vehicles that are there are available through Gift City for them to invest in India.
Speaker 1: Wow. So all the NRI community in the US, Dubai, if they want to invest in India, so this is.
Speaker 2: Any part of the world, they can use Gift City structure to come into India. They will eventually get invested in Indian equity market or any other asset classes. And people through LRS who would want to build portfolios outside India, you can go through some of these funds who invest in developed market, developing market, emerging market, all sorts of ideas and structures are available through to be invested through Gift City. So it's a, it's a evolving, uh, to my mind, an option for clients to invest in. But I think it will evolve in a big way over over the next a decade or so. Today, uh, majority of our Indian asset management companies, they are either creating Gift City funds to invest into India or investing outside India.
Speaker 1: And it is fully repatriable, is it? It can just come in in dollars and then go back in dollars.
Speaker 2: So in simple terms, all the investments done by NRIs and foreign nationals are investing in the units of the fund which is domiciled in Gift City. Underlying instrument is India investing and they just place the redemption to the units that they own in the Gift City and they would get their money back. So absolutely repatriable from that perspective. And they don't have to deal with tax filing and all of that. And majority of these countries, country have almost tax-free income from Gift City instruments. Uh, money going out similarly, money that goes out from India, if you invest through Gift City structure, depending on what kind of underlying instrument that you are investing. So the India taxation is applicable for that.
Speaker 1: Amazing. Wealth in India, as it is growing a lot, right? We see a lot of ads everywhere, in movie theaters, matches, cricket matches, everywhere we see the ads of wealth outfits very majorly these days. What exactly is happening? Are Indians becoming richer and richer?
Speaker 2: Absolutely, you can see that from 2003 till now, our GDP has grown eight X. We are a four trillion dollar economy and when I started my career it was a half a trillion economy. When when half a trillion becomes a four trillion, obviously there is a massive amount of wealth creation that happens. And as a result, uh, there is huge amount of requirement of uh, wealth managers, managing wealth of these Indians, right? But the pace at which wealth has grown, the wealth managers haven't grown in the same pace. The wealth has grown a lot bigger and wealth managers, uh, you know, number of wealth managers catering to that to my mind is a fraction of what kind of wealth that has grown. So going by the opportunity that we that exist in wealth management as the market and the economy and everything grows, I think there is a shortage of talent in India to cater to clients who are going to come into money or potential millionaires and billionaires that get made out of India. So therefore it's a great opportunity for somebody actually looking to build a wealth management career. One is there exists a need of a wealth manager. That is established. Then it's the wealth manager's ability to understand and be able to actually, uh, provide that entire wealth management service to the clients is where the tricky part is there, there exists the tricky part. And it is tricky because large part of your technical skills, I think will be addressed through the technology. Technology will be made available to all these wealth managers for them to be able to quickly refer to things and be able to ready for the answer. Where they need to really build is their soft skills, their leadership skills and and client's behavioral, um, side that as a wealth manager, you should be able to provide such, uh, you know, expertise on that. So, so it's a great career to build. I think it has huge potential. Uh, the industry itself is going through a massive tailwind. Like I said, India grows, more wealth gets generated. There are very, very few talent who are catering to this wealth and there's that's massive shortage. So this is the best situation to be in. Back in 2000, maybe 80s, sorry, in 80s, I think IT, IT, uh, went through IT sector went through a similar phase. It had a 20 year or maybe 15 years of rally because there is short of talent, but the business was booming. I see a similar event that is getting played out. That big. Yeah. It may not be. Because I'm just drawing a parallel to for you to understand what could potentially mean that the business is growing.
Speaker 1: There's a skill gap basically.
Speaker 2: There is a skill gap, there is a shortage of talent. And resulting in obviously, you know, attracting more talent to go into this industry and that requires a completely different skill set at this point in time for somebody to build a career in wealth.
Speaker 1: So what would be your advice to our viewers who are aspiring to have a career in wealth management? What should they hone and what should they you know, start working towards?
Speaker 2: Cheru, it's it's, uh, it's an industry which will grow. Uh, the moment you align yourself to the industry that grows, 90% of your problem statement has been addressed. So you are in a country which is growing. You are then in an industry which is growing. Then choose the right wealth management firm and grow with that wealth management firm with your attribute of, you know, be able to cater to the wealth management seeking clients, right? So the alignment here is to make sure that you wear advisory hat and be able to advise the client, win their trust and continue to perform in clients' portfolio. It requires major commitment, uh, competence to the level that you understand clients and be able to create that portfolio. And obviously, there are products that are available in the market which you are able to comprehend, be able to deliver in client's portfolio. Sure. Lastly, uh, gone are the days where you are, you are able to impress clients on your product capability. Today, you are able, you should be signing off as a CIO for the client and that's the kind of need that I think will, will exist in clients from the client's side. They would expect you to act as their CFO or a CIO. Right? Be able to design their investment policy statement, be able to discuss on cross-border, uh, requirement, be able to talk on taxation, be able to talk about structuring, be able to talk about family constitution, charter, building a charter around, be able to talk about succession planning, be able to talk about estate planning. So your role from just being a product manager or a product vendor, you'll have to now deliver a full-fledged advisory architecture to the client. That involves many things beyond only product. The product is kind of solved for. What is broken right now is to be an advisor to the client and be able to handle multiple things that he is seeking from you. To create a charter, to identifying a product. So that entire journey, if as a wealth manager, if you are talented, if you are competent and if you are committed to do this, I think I think you have a brightest future in this industry as we go from four trillion dollars economy to 20 trillion dollars economy, as we go from markets of 80,000 on Sensex.
Speaker 1: Maybe five lakhs on Sensex.
Speaker 2: I don't know what the number is, but in this entire journey, the tailwind is very strong, but as a person, you should be able to actually sign off as a CFO CIO to the client and with that attitude and with that commitment, I think this industry is the best industry and the brightest industry to be in.
Speaker 1: Thank you so much Sharaj for this insightful discussion. I'm sure our viewers have gained a lot from your experience and a lot to think about for someone who wants to start a career in wealth management now. Thank you so much for your time.
Speaker 2: Thanks, Cheru. It's a lovely catching up with you. Thank you so much for such lovely questions. Thank you so much.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Wrap. Did we do well? Yeah, I think it was good. It was very conversational, right? I don't think.
Speaker 2: So it's not.
Speaker 1: Cheru sir. Hello? Ho gaya?
Speaker 2: Ho gaya.
Speaker 1: Starting ka welcome kar do na.
Speaker 2: Starting ka welcome wapis se karu? Ha, sirf welcome karo aur first question karo unko. Bas, khatam kar de. Aap sawal karo, khatam. Ha, starting ka. Okay. Continue, continue. Thank you so much, Raj, for joining us on this episode. It's a delight to have you here.
Speaker 2: My pleasure.
Speaker 1: You've been in the industry for 20 long years. So I just want to take you back to the time when you have started your career. How was the industry back then? If you can share some insights with our viewers. Yes, done. Pehla question kuch aur tha, I think, na.
Speaker 2: I.
Speaker 1: He was there.