Dealer: Hello.
Client: Hello. Uh, Preeti Jignasha here. Uh, we spoke on Friday related, uh, Mr. Arnav Maheshwari's trade, right?
Dealer: Yes.
Client: Yeah. So, uh, I think the funds which had got paid, uh, by that day only. Okay. And, uh, but there was no intimation from your side, uh, that the funds have got paid, like, they have got paid.
Dealer: The funds came late, that's why I didn't send you any mail. I sent you the instructions today to execute.
Client: Yeah, you had sent the instructions, but I also mailed that, you know, you, uh, that there are no funds available as of now. So anytime whenever, uh, the funds are not available and the client have done a pay in, uh, you, if it is possible, please kindly, you know, just drop a email so that we can, you know, check and we can execute the trade. Because sometimes
Dealer: The funds didn't come on time, you know, which is why I didn't write to you.
Client: No, the funds did not come on time. We checked till 1:30, 2 o'clock, but there were no funds.
Dealer: That's what I'm telling you, the funds didn't come that day on time, which is why I sent you the mail today.
Client: Achha, it didn't come on time, okay. So, uh, I, so, uh, if is it possible to get a email confirmation from the client as of today's date?
Dealer: Why confirmation is needed if my question, when I've written in my mail that it will be executed on receipt of funds?
Client: Sorry?
Dealer: The funds came in late. I've written in my mail, this will be executed on receipt of funds.
Client: No, you're not The funds are there right now, but as of today's date, can I get the client's confirmation?
Dealer: That why confirmation is needed if my question, when I've written in my mail that it will be executed on receipt of funds.
Client: Okay. No, because as per the compliance, what happens, no? See, I'm placing the order on today. Whatever the client have confirmed, that is on Friday and he did not give the funds, right? So the pay-in was not on time, and hence the trade was not executed. So that is why I'm asking you that is it possible, it will be better as per the compliance. For us also.
Dealer: I completely understand compliance, okay. I'm not the first time doing my trade. I've that's why very clearly written on the execution will happen once the funds come in.
Client: Okay, fine. I'll just check with the compliance team.
Dealer: Why did you not speak to your executive and yourself?
Client: No, see, see, this is not, this is not something which I am, you know, bringing up. This is what compliance always brings up.
Dealer: I have to be you know, this is in addressable compliance, I'm saying that, no.
Client: Sorry?
Dealer: And whose compliance is telling you this, no?
Client: Yeah, I have confirmed on Friday only. I'll confirm it once again. If it is not possible, you have to send a client's confirmation as of 1st September.
Dealer: Whose compliance is not agreeing to this? Can you tell me?
Client: Hello?
Dealer: Whose compliance is not agreeing to this?
Client: Hello, Preeti. Yeah.
Dealer: Can you tell me whose compliance is not approving this?
Client: I'm not getting you actually, aapka voice break ho raha hai.
Dealer: Whose compliance is not approving this and asking you to
Client: Yeah, give me a minute.
Client: Santosh.
Client: With Santosh Kadam.
Dealer: Okay.
Client: Yeah, okay.